you were told that you never needed to
worry about the debt because it's
manageable well right now it's not you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you let me be honest with you
let me tell you the truth the debt isn't
manageable even when it was at those
super low interest rates but now that
we've moved that up just the interest
payments on the debt are now more than
basically anything one of the largest
expenses for the governments and you are
looking at this becoming mathematically
impossible to pay back except except if
you pay much much higher taxes and they
cut your services down considerably this
is the new world that we're walking head
first into today we're going to talk
about that debt we're going to look at
what central banks have been doing and
I'm going to show you why we are in for
a roote Awakening this year in 2024 so I
want to begin by taking a look at the US
national debt topping 34 trillion for
the first time in history are you
surprised of course not everybody knew
that was coming just like 33 and 32 and
all the ones before it they spend more
and more and more and quite frankly they
are never able never able to resolve
this they want to create more debt why
because this is a debt-based system we
don't have a real system a financial
system that is strong that is there to
support people to support the middle
class that's not how it works they want
to create a divide in between the rich
and the poor and I will tell you how
that works today many people believe
there's a level of incompetence here
that there's a level of arrogance in
fact but I'm here to tell you why it's
not everything is going according to
plan I have read the history all the way
back to the great inflation of Athens
and every single situation since now
let's look at
this you could see it how central banks
save the world and will again that's
right that's right they saved the world
in fact this reminds me a lot of if you
remember bber nanki had his face real
big on the front cover of the Atlantic
and it said hero that's right
hero uh for devaluing the currency you
see that's what they think of central
bankers and certainly most investors do
agree they believe that they save the
world and they love their actions back
in 2008 leading into 2009 if you
remember I mean I remember vividly and
I've also seen the videos many times
since where you would have people in the
US Congress saying excuse me fed what
are you trying to do you're printing
money and you're buying this stuff what
are you going to do with it where's it
going to go how's this all going to work
you better have an answer for us what's
going on how much money are you spending
what are you doing to the currency now
today please please Federal Reserve
please help us out things have really
changed in this short period of time you
see something drastically occurred
during this time frame in which we went
from Federal Reserve you better stay
right there okay we understand you want
to help but hold on a second you can't
just do whatever you want to 2020 what
it was like how much more are you
willing to do can you just can you just
buy everything oh yes we will oh we'll
buy mortgage back Securities when the
housing market is absolutely on fire I
mean you got to be out of your mind to
agree with that but that's what they did
they also Buy corporate debt imagine
buying corporate debt of the biggest
companies in the world they were buying
corporate debt of Apple why are you
doing a bailout of Apple that's what
that is it's a stealth bailout of apple
and other big companies just like it
they had money they they don't need to
worry about that but you were helping
them
out yes that's what happens you could
see overwhelmingly you know you look
around the world look at the interest
rates and it just shows us this is uh
Global uh Global rates.com and when you
look at this you will see the third last
column uh if you're look in there you'll
see red and green basically just telling
us are they increasing rates or are they
decreasing rates okay and so green if
you can't see that I know it's a little
small green means they are decreasing
rates and then on the right hand side we
can see the change so when did they do
that change and generally it depends on
where you look but generally we are
seeing globally the rate cuts are
starting to come that's what we are
seeing now obviously the federals are
being the most important no matter where
you are it is very interesting to just
see how these central banks on the newer
Cuts they've started to go you know on
the newer actions I should say have
started to go into cutting also they are
trying to stimulate as opposed to
necessarily you know try to constrict
and tighten because why because there
had been inflation okay so they started
to increase their interest rates they
started to tighten up let's get serious
let's get you know this under control
but now the economies have started to
weaken and so they say what do we got to
do let's get that stimulus to happen so
countries likely would try to leave it
as long as they possibly can before they
do that because that's your Firepower
that's your ammo and if you want that
you know you've got to preserve it you
can't just go and and use it off you you
need to be be mindful of that okay um
and basically this is just talking about
I mean
it there's a lot in here but there's
reasons to feel that 2024 could be a
great year and these are some of the
things okay there's no question there
are some positives to this what about
this demand for labor is strong there's
still 8.6 million job openings begging
for Willing workers maybe they're not
the jobs that people want but anyway
they're there the onshoring Boom is
boosting Capital spending and promising
to end the manufacturing recession and
not sure that's ever going to happen
housing is set for Recovery due to the
plunge in mortgage and interest rates in
early November yeah recovery being
higher prices that is Corporate cash
flow is at a record high uh they're not
spending they're not buying like they
did before and yet a lot of the
companies service-based Industries are
doing well inflation is turning out to
be transitory pretty funny that's that's
a hilarious thing to write down the
inflation of goods was back down to 0%
in November and so on okay so there are
some things whether you know I don't
agree with all of that obviously but
there are some things that are here and
now that would suggest I'm I'm talking
about their stats by the way the CPI the
pce there are things and you look at it
I mean people are still going out you
know it's not a complete
depression scenario they are going out
they are going to the restaurants they
are shopping you can see that but
they're deal hunting they're being more
choosy about where they do this things
are different instead of going to the
restaurants you know once a week maybe
they're going once a month you know
they're they're making these decisions
right now and that's happening broadly
across all sectors we have seen what I
have seen personally in my business um
looking at it higher costs there's no
question that there are higher costs
higher shipping costs we are seeing
higher warehousing costs the employees
they want more money of course and the
material the input costs the raw
materials are more expensive you put
that together that's squeezed on the
margins one of those aspects I don't use
debt in my company personally however a
lot of companies do use debt so that's
another place they are being squeezed
and so when you do that one after the
other after the other
some are saying I can't do business
anymore so they start laying people off
that's the the issue here now if the
central banks go out and they start
cutting interest rates dramatically this
could turn things around and create much
more inflation like I don't know if it's
going to show up in the CPI I I really
don't know that's such a manipulated
stat however I do know that this creates
price inflation as a result of easy ier
monetary policies we've seen it so many
times before I don't need to prove that
to you because I know it some would
actually argue that printing money the
way that they do quantitative easing
actually creates deflation now for those
people whatever it is what whatever um
you know drug you're doing or whatever
I'd be interested to know what it is I
want to study it I want to see the
effects on the brain and I'd be
interested to know more about that okay
um the FED will set the pace for markets
more than ever this year and that is
absolutely true because they're watching
that they're paying close attention to
that and the expectation is perhaps
March March will be when they cut rates
officially if not though I'm saying this
now and we'll see what happens by then
that they might just signal what they
plan on doing okay they might not go all
the way out they might just be signaling
it and we'll see we'll see what happens
but this is very important because
they're looking closely very closely at
the FED no matter where you are around
the world because a lot of their action
then oh okay the FED did it okay now we
can do it that that was happening a lot
um during this previous
cycle and seeing where we are right now
it looks like I mean you could measure
interest rates in different ways we
could look at the FED funds rate for
instance obviously but we can look at
the bond market so this is the two-year
Treasury and you see that it peaked out
approximately 5% so there it was at 5%
people were putting their money in and
it was the same for even shorter term
debt so you were getting really good
rates of return on short-term debt and
that's really important to note um but
it has definitely come down so we'll see
you know as it fluctuates and so on uh
where it goes but that is an important
thing because when you get more
attractive rates on bonds money can move
into the bonds um for obvious reasons
you have companies that you know are
dealing with that they've got a higher
rates are not necessarily A bullish
thing so we're going to see how
companies respond to it they've got too
much debt this is a problem this is a
problem overall okay so um you know but
it really remains to be seen I think the
most important thing is the expectation
that the Federal Reserve is going to be
cutting uh rates that is it as they say
here for investors 2024 is the year of
transition to a New Economic order
investors appear convinced that central
banks are close to a much awaited pivot
from raising rates to cutting them 2024
could hold surprises as the world
adjusts to an economic order where money
is not cheap interesting I don't know
what's going to happen here but you know
how far they are able to go down I know
that they're just going to prolong the
cuts uh you know stretch that out even
if they do let's say cut in March maybe
the next one they'll say hey we're not
going to do the next one right away
let's wait a month this and that we're
going to wait and see just to kind of
you know stretch that up because as I
said that's your ammo you don't want to
use it up all at once unless they had
some other plans I think they want that
that cushion because they got the 5 and
a quarter to 5 and a half% on the FED
funds rate and what we learned from the
previous time they tried this it was at
approximately 2 and a
half% they had very little cushion and
so it hit zero like so rapidly and that
wasn't enough so they needed to go out
there and you know use everything they
could big problem big mistake so now
they are having that 5 and a quart to 5
and a half% that is a much larger
cushion so that they may not need to do
so much money printing all right away
okay so what I would love from everybody
is if you want to to know the truth well
then you would join me on the small
classes that I have the live classes I
think this is the best way to actually
learn and be prepared and take the right
actions yes you have to invest your time
there's no question about it two hours
every Friday night I cover this the link
is in the description if you want to get
that I updated it so that you can come
here you can read all the things that
are included with that included the new
gpts which helps to be a better investor
smarter investor that's coming right now
as soon as they make it available to me
I can release it it's ready to go 6
hours of work that took me and then I
actually included the thing where you
can actually check out now you don't
have to email me and all that stuff
however if you want to there's a blue
button you could find out more right
there I want to appreciate you uh I
appreciate you for being here today to
listen to me to see what's going to
happen in 2024 as we go through this
Central Bank cycle you got to be aware
of all this stuff and understand how
this affects inflation
it's ready to rock let me tell you okay
hit that Thumbs Up Button if you support
the channel and of course don't forget
to come back tomorrow cuz I got the
latest and greatest information you
definitely want to see take care see you
then